# KnowingRP2040
Examples for the **Knowing the RP2040** book.

This examples were tested with the Raspberry Pi Pico C/C++ SDK v1.5.0 and the Raspberry Pi Pico board.

To compile and run the code follow instructions on the Raspberry Pi Pico C/C++ SDK Users Guide.

Organization of the files follow the chapters of the book.

## Chapter 3 - The Cortex-M0+ Processor Cores

### Dual Core

Running code in both ARM cores, with synchronization.

## Chapter 4 - Reset, Interrupts and Power Control

### PioInt

Generating and handling PIO interrupts.

### Sleep

Putting the RP2040 in sleep and dormant modes.

## Chapter 5 - Memory, Addresses and DMA

### AdcDma

Collecting ADC data using DMA.

### SpiDma

Sending Data to a SPI LCD Display using DMA.

## Chapter 6 - Clock Generation, Timer, Watchdog and RTC

### ClocksDemo

Measuring the clocks, changing the processors clock and outputting a clock in a GPIO pin.

### RTCDemo

Setting the Real Time Clock and using its alarms.

### TimerDemo

Using the System Timer.

### WatchdogDemo

Watchdog demonstration.

## Chapter 7 - GPIO, Pad and PWM

### GPIO7Segment

Digital output example: driving a four digit seven segment display.

### GPIOKeypad

Digital input example: reading a 4x4 matrix keypad.

### GPIOInterrupt

Showing the edge interrupts generated by a button.

### PWMDemo

Generating PWM signals.

### PWMMeasure

Using the PWM peripheral to measure frequency and duty cycle.

## Chapter 8 - The PIO

### SquareWave

Using the PIO to generate a square wave in a pin.

### SerialTx

Serially transmit data with a clock.

### SerialRx

Receive the data sent by SerialTx.

### HCSR04

Using the PIO to interface an HC-SR04 ultrasonic sensor.

## Chapter 9 - The UART

### UartSum

Reading numbers through the UART and print the sum.

## Chapter 1o - Communication Using I^2^C

### I2CScanner

Finding the addresses of the devices connected to a I^2^C bus.

### I2CEEPROM

Using an I^2^C 24C32 EEPROM.

### I2CDevice

Version 1.5 of the SDK introduced a library for implementing
i2c slave devices. This example uses it to create a RTC device.

## Chapter 11 - Communication Using SPI

### ADXL345

Using SPI to interface an ADXL345 accelerometer.

## Chapter 12 - Analog Input: The ADC

### AdcDemo

Using the ADC to read the internal temperature sensor and an external light sensor (LDR).  

## Chapter 13 - A Brief Introduction to USB

### KbdDevice

A five key USB keyboard device

### UsbSerial

A very basic serial to USB adapter.
